So next we're going to talk about Amazon Route 53, and this is
Amazon's DNS service. And we'll talk more about what DNS means in
just a minute. But if you remember, we have already mentioned this service.
This is one of the two services that leverage AWS's edge
locations within their global infrastructure. But at a high
level, Amazon Route 53 is a domain name service,
as we mentioned, and it's also a global service,
which we also had mentioned previously.
That means that it is not a regional service, that means any
changes that you make are applied globally.
Next, it's highly available, which means this service is going to have minimal,
if any, downtime.
In addition to it being highly available, it enables you
to create highly available services,
and we'll actually give an example of that in just a minute.
Next,
it enables global resource routing. So you could actually
send people to a specific server based on what country
they're coming in from. Or, in addition,
you also could say I want to send them to the server that responds the fastest.
Now what is DNS? DNS is really just a process by which we can map domain
names, like pluralsight.com or amazon.com, to the specific addresses that
are needed for identifying the computer services and the devices that are
going to serve that content.
So this is the connective tissue between those
domain names and those IP addresses.
Now when we look here at the console utilizing Route
53, as we've mentioned before,
it is a global service and it does not require region selection.
That means that any changes that you make here within the
Route 53 console are applied globally.
But you do need to know that DNS changes are not instantaneous.
It does need to what we call propagate those changes throughout
the network of DNS servers around the world.
So it might take a couple of hours for some of your
changes to be realized for everyone.
So let's give an example of how Route 53 can enable you to
have a highly available application.
So in this case, we have an ecommerce site,
and it is currently hosted in US East 1,
which is in Northern Virginia. And we have users from all over
the globe that actually leverage this site.
Now in this case, we have a customer that's coming in from South America,
and when they access the site,
normally it's going to route them to US East 1 and
everything works great; however,
what happens if our server goes down in US East 1? Let's
say we deploy a bad configuration, and that actually goes down. Well,
what do we do?
Well,
we can configure Route 53 to have a failover so that if
it can't reach its primary server, it can then route users to a new server.
In this case, we can route them to EU West 1, which is in Dublin.
And in this manner,
the user doesn't have to know that anything has changed, but we're
now routing them to a server that can fulfill their requests
because we have that failover in place.
And that's just one of several ways that we can utilize Route 53 to create highly available applications.